## Guide for _The Chosen_
### Season 01 Episode 01 - _I Have Called You By Name_

#### Biblical Context

- Isaiah 43:1-7 Called by Name
  > But now thus says the LORD, he who created you, O Jacob, he who formed you, O Israel: “Fear not, for I have redeemed you; I have called you by name, you are mine. When you pass through the waters, I will be with you; and through the rivers, they shall not overwhelm you; when you walk through fire you shall not be burned, and the flame shall not consume you. For I am the LORD your God, the Holy One of Israel, your Savior. I give Egypt as your ransom, Cush and Seba in exchange for you. Because you are precious in my eyes, and honored, and I love you, I give men in return for you, peoples in exchange for your life. Fear not, for I am with you; I will bring your offspring from the east, and from the west I will gather you. I will say to the north, Give up, and to the south, Do not withhold; bring my sons from afar and my daughters from the end of the earth, everyone who is called by my name, whom I created for my glory, whom I formed and made.”
- Matthew 3:1-12 Prepare the way of the Lord
  > In those days John the Baptist came preaching in the wilderness of Judea, “Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.” For this is he who was spoken of by the prophet Isaiah when he said, “The voice of one crying in the wilderness: ‘Prepare the way of the Lord; make his paths straight.’ ” Now John wore a garment of camel’s hair and a leather belt around his waist, and his food was locusts and wild honey. Then Jerusalem and all Judea and all the region about the Jordan were going out to him, and they were baptized by him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins. But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming to his baptism, he said to them, “You brood of vipers! Who warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Bear fruit in keeping with repentance. And do not presume to say to yourselves, ‘We have Abraham as our father,’ for I tell you, God is able from these stones to raise up children for Abraham. Even now the axe is laid to the root of the trees. Every tree therefore that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. “I baptize you with water for repentance, but he who is coming after me is mightier than I, whose sandals I am not worthy to carry. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. His winnowing fork is in his hand, and he will clear his threshing floor and gather his wheat into the barn, but the chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire.” 

#### Biblical Characters

- Mary Magdalene
- Nicodemus
- John the Baptist (metioned in passing by Quintus)
- Matthew, also known as Levi
- Simon
- Andrew, brother of Simon

#### Biblical Sources

- How do we know Mary Magdalene was possessed by demons?
  - Luke 8:1-3
        > Soon afterward he went on through cities and villages, proclaiming and bringing the good news of the kingdom of God. And the twelve were with him, 2 and also some women who had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities: Mary, called Magdalene, from whom seven demons had gone out, 3 and Joanna, the wife of Chuza, Herod’s household manager, and Susanna, and many others, who provided for them out of their means.
- Nicodemus
  - John 3:1,10
        > Now there was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews...
        > Jesus answered him, “Are you the teacher of Israel and yet you do not understand these things?
- Simon and Andrew
  - Matthew 4:18
        > While walking by the Sea of Galilee, he saw two brothers, Simon (who is called Peter) and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen.

#### Discussion Questions

1. What do you think about Mary's situation before she meets Jesus? What feelings or experiences of hers can you relate with?
2. What struck you as different between our introductions to Matthew versus Peter, Andrew, and Mary?
3. How does Nicodemus fit our expectations of a Pharisee? How is he different than we might expect?